hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here back
again for the hundred and fifty eighth
time today we're finishing off the qin
state their most famous leader in the
dynasty a tall order but we're gonna try
and finish this off in an hour
last time I waxed eloquently about how
change your Wang started comes off these
days as the man who did it all he
founded China's first imperial dynasty
he put reforms in place and stuck around
for a couple thousand years he put China
on the track to global greatness and on
the tyrannical side we remember him for
his acts of violence vengeance in the
long string of massive civil engineering
feats most notable the Great Wall and
his mausoleum with terracotta warriors
last week's episode showed how prior to
Xiang yang in 359 BCE that Sheen were
these rough and tumble uncouth not
exactly Han people from way out west the
elites of the Yellow River Valley didn't
particularly admire or respect them but
then along came Zhang Yan who spiff them
up launched all these new reforms and
poached talented men from other states
attracting administrators scholars
thanks to Chong Yang's reforms the
Army's ranks swelled to numbers never
seen before in China or maybe anywhere
for that matter Shang Young's
reforms organized the tax rolls and
money started pouring into the state
coffers in all these collective changes
percolated for 100 years before Ying
Chun came along and took the Qin state
to the next level I mentioned last time
Zhang Yuans big strong buddy was Duke
Xiao and when Duke Xiao died in 338 BCE
his son was next in line and this was
King way when or Qing way he hated xiang
yong from way back when when he was
Prince and committed some offense Xiang
yang made sure that the prince was not
spared or given any special treatment
and he got himself banished for a while
a man that was legalism but once Dukes
shall die the prince made himself a king
instead
the Duke and as I said he got his
revenge on poor old Xiang yang so xiang
yong after all he had done to build up
the qin state and after all the reforms
he introduced that made it happen
got himself killed he found out the hard
way the philosophy of legalism cut both
ways King hue may have had Xiang yang
killed but he kept all the reforms in
place the newly improved and fortified
Qin state first tested their wings to
the south all eyes looked East but in
the end it was decided to conquer these
lands to the south and use those riches
to help build up Qin more then when they
were strong enough they can take on the
states to the east and core China the
major obstacle in the way of an easy qin
march into the Shu state where Chengdu
is located where the Qinling mountains
these mountains separated the way river
valley in Shaanxi with the Sichuan Basin
the breadbasket of China where Chengdu
is located as the story goes the Xin
strategists hoodwink the ruler of Shu
into letting them build a road through
the mountain so they might send the Shu
Qing gifts of cattle the king of Shu
said yeah go ahead and sew the shield of
the stone cattle road got built right
through the Qinling mountains and the
chain used that route to invade shoe-in
316 BCE and put an end to their unique
and rich civilization and not much
longer after they took Shu the ba state
centered around Chongqing also felt a
chin and this whole annexation of
Sichuan and the Qin state man that was
the Louisiana Purchase of its day if the
Lufthansa heist made henry hill the same
could be said of the annexation of su
chuan for the xin not only to this
region become the breadbasket of china
even into this very day and age it was
rich in silk minerals copper salt and
iron the grain of su chuan ended up
keeping the stomach's of the Qin
soldiers nice and fall and we all know
what Napoleon said about that
Willy Jun won't be planting his seven
trees on
being Shaun until a good century and a
half after the untimely death of change
sir Wong so when the chin took the Bashu
States tea cultivation hadn't formally
started yet such one before the chiyan
conquest was not anything like the
culture of the Yellow River plain if
you're familiar with the discoveries
made at sunshine today and janeshia the
ancients who called the Sichuan claimed
their home a very distinct and unique
culture of their own nothing like what
was going on in the cradle of Chinese
civilization but after the Chien took
over in 316 BCE they pretty much erased
all evidence of this civilization at
least for 2,000 years in no time at all
su chuan became a Santa fide as you see
it today Xiang Yang's reforms much the
chagrin of the inhabitants down in su
chuan were rolled out across the former
Bashu lands this newly conquered area
became the testing ground for everything
that would later be implemented
nationwide in China and these reforms
really helped him quickly incorporating
su chuan into the growing Qin state
citizens from Qin looking for a little
adventure flooded into Sichuan and
helped populate the area the Qin had
some big plans for this area and the
more people they could settle down there
the better and from the Needham Podcast
part one we recall the Fujian yen
irrigation system it was built between
the two 70s and 250 BCE Li ping served
as the governor down there and acted as
the head of this massive hydraulic and
civil engineering project that quietly
and without even a drop of fanfare
influence the future course of Chinese
history let's pick up where we left off
last time fun sway had worked hand in
hand with his King Jiang Qing Chuang he
loyally advised his King on strategy and
in political moves that worked to
consolidate his power and diminish all
his potential rivals King Jiang of Qin
had fun sway to aid him politically and
by Qi
to represent him on the battlefield more
battle deaths went down under chou-heung
them with any other chin King this was
thanks in part to by Qi the people of
Mei Shen make County in Shaanxi province
claimed by Qi is one of their native
sons that's right on the way river in
Chien country just shy of a million
deaths are attributed to by Qi a feat
that earned him the nickname of the
butcher of men the rental when you
figure about 1.6 million troops were
killed by the Qin army over the hundred
and thirty years of conflict by Qi gets
most of that credit he was one of the
suta Ming Cheng the four great generals
of the day of the warring States Period
Yin PO Li mu and Wang Jin were the other
three and likethey 1972 Miami Dolphins
bite she was undefeated never lost a
battle lien Paul and Lee moved both Jo
generals will talk about them when we
discussed the Battle of Chongqing Lee
moves claim to fame was to push the
Xiong nu back far away from China proper
Wang Jin was one of Young's men he led
the chain to the ultimate defeat of the
Chu State bite she began his rise of the
Qin ladder in 294 BCE as the Joshua
Chung or left militia general he
inflicted his first defeat against the
Hun and way states where today's each
one County is located in Hoonah just
south of law young near the famous
Longmen grottoes
this was fun sways strategy Han and way
were Chin's neighbors to the east and
they had to go like I said the age of
mass infantry was all the rage and this
battle of each year this is modern day
lawman saw two hundred and forty
thousand Han and way the Han Wei Lian
Joon vs. 120,000 men under by Chi by 293
BCE bite she had beaten Han and way
sufficiently enough so that they they
were never able to rise again all hunt
and waste survivors from the bad
were put to the sword the young will
finish off han in 230 BCE and way into
25 this first victory for the Qin led by
by Qi turned a few heads from out east
with lands that they seized from the two
vanquished states the chamber now inside
the Yellow River Valley and 292 by
cheese forces invaded way and seized 61
cities and towns the following year in
291 both bite she and one of his
generals somach Hall made the way cry
uncle way sued for peace and took
themselves out of the competition with
Wade and Han out of the picture the
obvious direction to turn was south
towards chew and 278 the Chu will be the
next power to fall to the chainstay from
280 into the 270s
Xin used their military power and
political tricks to keep the true state
down also if you remember from the new
state episode the Shu culturally weren't
at all like the washout people from the
north
the next big milestone for the Chien was
the annihilation of job at the Battle of
Chun ping followed by the three-year
siege of jobs capital in modern-day Han
dong yeah this is in Hebei
Chun ping was the site of a three-year
conflict that lasts in 262 to 260 BCE
this is the famous battle that saw the
ultimate defeat of the jaw army lots of
legends and stories about this battle it
all started when Shane started a fight
with the Han state in 265 I'm not
getting into the gory details Han went
to jail for help and has led to a state
of open hostilities between jaw and chin
this is where another of the Saddam in
Jung the four great generals of the
warring States Period Lian Paul is most
remembered Lian Paul
seeing how great and mighty the Qin were
looking decided to build fortresses that
would keep them out the Qin had marched
east and were far from their base Lian
Paul was sure the supply lines would be
exhausted
sooner or later just had to slow them
down
through a little warring States
chicanery behind closed doors the Jiao
ruler was tricked into relieving Li and
paw of Duty and replacing him with joke
ah son of the famous job general Zhao
Zhao joke hua was supposed to be a real
military genius but on paper only he
hadn't been battle tested yet and it's
supposedly when speaking about joke hua
that we got the great and useful Cheung
chiu-hung time ping to discuss military
strategy on paper only with Qing Xiao
Chun of Chao tricked into sidelining his
best man
li and paw joke war led a massive Chow
force of 450,000 men against the Qin
600,000 the Battle of Chongqing is the
biggest battle that the planet had seen
to date
and for a long time after that to being
Jung will be born right after this
battle 260 BCE child court took over
bite she had not been used in these
campaigns against Jo but King chou-heung
put him in the game right here ja wohl
vs. by Chi it was a terrible mismatch
and bite she had laid a trap that
divided the jaw troops and forced child
qua into a kind of Custer's last stand
he was killed in battle and like the Red
Army during the white high campaign in
1948 millions of peasants had been
mobilized by the Qin state to assist the
army in all kinds of ways keeping them
resupplying fed so my chin says four
hundred fifty thousand child soldiers
were either killed or survived and were
buried alive the chin and jaw states
have been going at each other for the
longest time and this had to be the end
of it no army remnants could be allowed
to survive who could be reconstituted
into a future jaw force
I don't know how hundreds of thousands
of men got buried alive mankind
over the millennia has figured out all
kinds of efficient ways to mass-produce
the act of murder I don't know how they
did it but after the Battle of Chongqing
the state of job never rose again and
into our very day they're still digging
skeletons out of the ground in and
around present-day
North East gulping in Shaanxi province
we go with the consensus that says
Shandong and yet D were one in the same
person his tomb is located here in
gulping the chiyan army did not get away
unscathed the quarter million Qin
soldiers also perished at Chun ping this
wasn't a minor conflict that the Qing
were able to quickly shake off they too
took a big hit and needed time to bounce
back from this most epic of battles
after the Battle of Chongqing I guess
you could say the next big year for the
history books was 256 BCE that was the
year that Cho Dynasty fell what a nice
long run the chief family of the Cho had
enjoyed 10:46 to 256 BCE 790 years the
last of the Chi clan trained for the Jo
was King nan jounin Wan he lasted fifty
nine years on the throne a record in its
day the Jo Kings by this time it hardly
got any face for many of the surrounding
states no one took them seriously in the
Chien simply moved in and annexed what
was left of the Jo lands and Hunan
province King chou-heung of Qin he
reigned a good 55 years 306 to 251 BCE
start with the Punic Wars over the
Mediterranean I know I said this last
time but as far as the Qin Dynasty and
all the systems of government and
national administration that got passed
down through the ages don't give all the
credit to Qin sure Wong it was this King
Charles young and also Duke Xiao Duke mu
Shang yang fan sway by Qi and a whole
other cast of lesser known characters
who put the Chien on a solid foundation
by the time 13 year old Ying Chun took
over the kingship from his father drunk
young and 247 BCE the entire Qin state
was already locked and loaded man
change sure Wong didn't conquer China by
himself he finished off the remaining
states and mopped up more than anything
else here is where our story starts to
get a little more interesting with this
king joseon whose long reign saw more
gore and violence than ever before in
chinese history the history of the Qin
state starts to get a little weird
but the time Chao Shawn's son succeeded
him as king he was already quite old
this son of chou-heung was Qin Shih
Huang's grandfather how much to say
about this king shelwyn except that
three days after his coronation he died
William Henry Harrison lasted 10 times
as long the short reigning sha1 was
succeeded by the Qin Emperor's father
trunks young here's where we have little
to go on except what so much in tells us
and parts of this story I didn't know if
I was reading the shirt chi or decadence
mom shoe it's a well-known historical
fact the han dynasty that follow the Qin
had everything to gain from dumping all
over the Qin Dynasty
she sure Wang and everything there was
about the people of the Qin state so
this sordid little story regarding Qin
Shih Huang's paternity is always playing
out in the background the characters in
this drama opera farce or whatever you
want to call it are Qing Chuang Xiang
and his son Ying Chun the future Qin
Emperor
there is lu buwei Chao Chi law I Lisa
Chaka fusa who hi mung ten and several
others orbiting this tempest our story
begins with a sudden mysterious death of
King Whelan three days into his reign
whenever something like that happens
it's reasonable for anyone to have their
doubts about natural causes being de
caza de marte enter duple way 291 to 35
BCE so you know right away he's a
preaching dynasty character young Jung's
father King dong Qiang prior to becoming
the king of Qin had drawn the short
straw when he was younger and hit
serve many years in job as a political
hostage while roughing it in Java this
future king Duong Chun then named the
Chu met duple wit there are all kinds of
oily references to Lupu way being this
ambitious and manipulative merchants
from the way state he sidled up to this
shin roads the truth and whispered all
kinds of things in his ear to get him
all juiced up he said he was uh you know
well-connected person with friends in
high places who had some influence at
the chin court duple way promised he
could stack the deck in such a way that
he could make the chu the heir to the
throne lo and behold that's exactly what
happens so after King sha-1 has his
three days of greatness 249 BCE this is
the true is thrust onto the throne and
reigns a very anemic three years lu
buwei had successfully persuaded King
Shah one's wife lady Quang to adopt the
true in order to get rid of that little
problem of not having any sons of her
own so by lady Huang adopting the true
it put him next in line for the throne
and you boo way for being the kingmaker
that he was joined the inner circle of
Qing Chuang Chang's court and served as
his chief minister or Chancellor in
addition to this lu buwei served as the
regent for the young teenage Crown
Prince Ying Chun Asuma Chen tells it
mean Jung's birth mother was new PO ways
former main squeeze she was a courtesan
er someone were in their livelihood with
good looks and quick wits
she was lady jock or child chief this is
a Chu fell head-over-heels in love with
her and loop away put on this green hat
and allowed his lady to cultivate this
relationship when lady Jo and now she
was pregnant
du Poulet had count on his fingers to
see maybe perhaps this child was his so
much Yin didn't use these exact words
but he maintains that loop away and Geng
Chun two shared a similar DNA profile
reigning only three years
Qing Chuang Shang didn't list any
marquee achievements as far as further
Qin conquests when he died in the third
year of his reign the crown prince only
bar mitzva aged 13 years old becomes the
new king and it was decided that in yang
chun minority lu buwei would serve as
his regent this would last till 247 BCE
let me just quickly mention it was right
here where the junk wall canal was built
this second of the three great water
projects of the qin join together the
jing and law rivers both tributaries of
the way at first this project had been
launched his ruse between Han and xin
the Han rulers faring Chin's growing
strength tried to tie them down with
this impossible civil engineering
project about halfway through
construction that xin ruler finds out
what's going on but he had been
convinced by the designer Chung hua that
if they finished it the results would be
good for Qin and no truer words were
spoken in 246 when it was opened 27,000
square kilometers of land the size of
Massachusetts was turned into a fertile
plain and the crops grown in this part
of shiny she helped chaser Wong keep his
army well-fed for these few years with
Qing Chuang Qian cold in his tomb lu
buwei went back to lady job now the
queen dowager and we picked up where he
left off before he fought the then lady
Chou off on the future emperor of
China's father but that wasn't all now
law I enters our story he was Lupul ways
creation and was brought in to distract
the Queen Dowager so to speak it said a
new pool way was getting paranoid about
Ying Chun tweaking on the relationship
he was having with the Queen Dowager
mean Jung's mother to do this Lupul way
introduced law I into the Queen
dowager's quarters this part of the
palace was strictly off-limits to men so
lu buwei arranged for a mock castration
and a total makeover for lala in order
to make him look like he was a eunuch
who served the former lady job and she
used lau i as her
new sexual plaything and nature took its
course from there once she was pregnant
now I was emboldened and came out from
behind the curtain and you know it began
to assert himself in the Chien
government allow I suffered from that
terrible handicap of never knowing when
to keep his mouth shut
he went around making remarks suggesting
that the king eun-jung you know was his
stepson Lau I and Ying Chun smother the
Queen Dowager had two sons together and
in 238 Lau I bungled in attempted coup
d'etat 21 year old Ying Chun was on to
him from the start the coup fizzled at
once and all the plotters were executed
now I got the old truly a punishment
that you recall from last episode he got
pulled apart and five Easy Pieces then
like Xiang yang his whole family was
wiped out from the great-grandparents
all the way down to the
great-grandchildren
they all got whacked Ying Chun also
didn't let his mother off the hook he
had her demoted for her role in the plot
she spent the rest of her days under a
form of house arrest yes for loophole
way he did all he could
distance himself from this whole affair
but law I had been his creation and he
had to take responsibility and just as
my dad with limpio twenty-two hundred
years later the future chi damper kept a
close eye on lu and put a lot of
pressure on this one-time regent of his
and after it got to be too much lu buwei
was banished to su chuan and with that
poison himself to death and 235 BCE and
that was the end of the whole creepy
story of new boo way law i and lady job
it's often said that one man's lost
sometimes another man's opportunity with
new pool ways demise that left the path
open for lease to take over the
Chancellor's spot and what Xiang yang
was to Duke Xiao Li sulla was teeing
Jeong before and after he became Emperor
Qin Shi Huang and like Xiang yang Lisa
is gonna die in multiple pieces Lisa
came from true he was one of those men
of talent
ambition saw a bright future north and
Chien Lee su was a hard-core legalist
and devoted his life to building and
enhancing the power and authority of his
king and later Emperor he he really took
over where Shang Yang left off with
respect to legalisms role in the qin
state the careful and methodical
eradication of the six remaining warring
states was engineered by Lee su the
first ones to go were Han in 230 and
what was left of Jo and 228 the JA
military manly and paw another of the
four great generals was exiled and cast
aside in favor of another of the Sudama
Jang namely mu he represented jaws last
hope before they were put away for good
then Xin military leaders respected Li
mu knew he wasn't gonna be a an easy guy
to beat qin spies who had been doing a
splendid job sowing discord in the child
kappa let Han dong spun a web of
intrigue that led the child King to lose
his trust in Li mu and once he was
pulled from the roster and executed the
Chien were all smiles and with the death
of jaws last great hope it was over for
them and they fell to the chin next up
was the state of yin in the north
Beijing is they knew what was coming it
decided to take matters in their own
hands the first of three assassination
attempts against yang Chun is born in
this state this is the story of Gingka
and his clever but failed attempt to do
away with being Jung the idea up in Yin
was if you cut off the head of this
snake the chin would be neutralized
Gingka went to chin as an envoy of Yin
Jo and hon were kaput and yan was next
so they tried to head off the inevitable
the plan called for Jing could to get
close to Yoon Jung by presenting him
with the head of his enemy the plan
called for Jean could kill Ying Chun
with a poisoned dagger when the moment
came however he got close enough but not
close enough
a sword battle ensued and is somach an
tells it Ying Chun prevailed and Gingka
and his fellow assassin were killed
Ying Chun was rightly pissed about this
and called Wang Jin also as I mentioned
one of the four great generals of the
warring States Period and 226 BCE Yin
submitted to chained and that was the
end of them if you'd like to see a movie
version of these events may I humbly
suggest Chun chi cos the Emperor and the
assassin starring calmly and Johnny Mo's
hero with mega stars Jet Li Tony lamb
Maggie Chen Chen dal Ming Johnny and
Donnie Yen starring that was a good one
at this point hanging Jung is just
finishing off the job begun by his
illustrious ancestors Qing Chun and Duke
show the only states left standing will
prove to be pushovers Yin felt young
Jung's wrath and got hit hard though
they hung in there until 222 before the
last of their resistance fizzled only
way to and she remained both way and
true had been worn down to the nub and
were hardly the contenders that they had
once been way fell to chin and 225 and
the great mighty true state so rich in
culture and so diverse in the people who
lived in that state after more than a
million soldiers on both sides slugged
it out fell to the victorious Xin
general Wang Jin true did the
unthinkable
in surrender to the might of the Qin
army those two states have been going at
it practically from the time Xin began
to emerge as an up-and-comer but the
true people didn't totally submit they
may have been defeated militarily but
the people of truth from the very
beginning put up all the resistance they
could this whole strict and draconian
regimen and way of life and chin was
transplanted to truth and the people
there did not accept it and for the
entirety of Chi Chuan short reign the
conquered Chu never fully got the
program and of course you all remember
from CHP episode 91 Xiang Yu a man from
Chu there's going to be the one who
rises from the defeated state and
drives the sword deep into the Qin
Dynasty and puts them away in 206 BCE
the next year 222 the yin States already
pretty much out of the fights were
finished off that left she the good-old
she stayed with its capital at
modern-day Tzu ba they were the state
who comprised the northern portion of
Shandong the state of Lu where Confucius
came from was in the southern half of
Shandong this land was known as Chi Lu
lianca in Shandong these are the two
rival states she being the more powerful
of the two along the way Lu's states
have been taken over in 249 BCE by their
neighbor to the south the Chu state with
only Chi left standing to take on the
Qin state and Yin Jung's generals going
at at full throttle the Qi rulers knew
the end had come for them what could
they do except fortify the eastern
border of Qi state and wait for the
onslaught the only problem with that
strategy was that the Qin army didn't
attacked Shi from the east they launched
a surprise attack from the north this
time it wasn't Wang Jin leading the
charge was his prodigal son Wong button
another of Chin's great generals but he
didn't make the top floor he delivered
the final knockout punch in 221 BCE and
ladies and gentlemen that was that 221
BCE one of the most historic years in
Chinese history eight and a quarter
centuries before the victorious Jo
dynasty king and co-founder Joel Wang
after putting an end to the shang
dynasty and their wicked King Jo divvied
up the land to all the feudal lords who
fought with him that led to the Golden
Age of feudalism in China and this all
led to the period of the warring States
by the 3rd century BCE only seven states
remained and now in 221 BCE there was
only the Qin one of the first things
that Xin King said was I'm no King
anymore I'm an emperor and he chose the
Chinese word quanti to name this title
this came from the San Juan wudy the
three sovereigns and five emperors they
were featured in CHP episode 60 and Qin
Shi Huang Huang means first emperor he
wasn't gonna make the mistake that Joe
Wong made no handing out land and titles
that could be passed on he had to have
it all
Joey Wong back in 1046 BCE he didn't
have the tools that she sure Wong had in
221 Chong Yang's reforms that had
transformed that she and state had
already settled throughout the land and
had evolved over a hundred and thirty
five years when she sure wanna take over
not only was the Qin military a force no
one in China are probably the world
could reckon with he had that amazing
bureaucracy in place controlling the
people and mobilizing them to do
whatever whenever was a very powerful
and useful tool well she sure Wong only
has ten years to do all his great things
before he up and dies but he had been
king of the Qin state for 26 years
already when he declared himself the
first emperor he was no new untested
ruler in 221 he was at the peak of his
powers all the armies of all the
conquered states had to discern all
weapons were collected from soldiers and
civilians and sent to the capital where
they were melted down into these twelve
Gendron or gold men each statue weighing
in at a hundred and twenty tons 109
thousand kilos more or less one of the
first things he had to do was
consolidate his power and tamp out any
brush fires and any potential threats to
his government word went out to all the
aristocratic and wealthy families from
yin in the north to Chu in the south
they had to pack up and head to the Qin
capital of Xi'an yang where the Emperor
could keep watch over them this little
part of China Shenyang Xian where the
way river flowed would be the center of
things in China for not only the Xin but
for the Han sway and tong dynasties as
well
ginger Wan was one of those rare
Emperor's who liked to get out of the
palace and take these tours of his realm
and he began doing that at once by 218
BCE there had already been
three close calls as far as assassins
getting close you can imagine with all
the power he had and being you know who
he was at all
she sure wand began to get very
concerned about eternal life he was
Floyd Mayweather's aged 38 years old
when he unified China even back then
that wasn't considered too old but the
Qin Emperor began to make this an
obsession to hedge his bets for later
when he went out on these field trips to
the east and to the south he was always
keeping his eyes and ears open for any
hints about elixir of life that existed
in those parts this became one of his
defining characteristics and will be all
the alchemical excess that gets the best
of him and causes his earlier than
expected demise and wherever he went and
he loved to climb all the sacred
mountains of his new Chinese state he
would leave these carved stone steelies
that commemorated his visit and allowed
him to offer a prayers to the gods ruins
of six of these steelies survived into
modern times as the country more and
more began to feel the impact of the Qin
Court and the bureaucracy there was
still one thing nagging the Qin Emperor
the lien on region had yet to submit to
him this was the south of China
Guangdong Guangxi parts of northern
Vietnam and foutch in distance and
topography had always been South China's
most important ally in maintaining their
independence from what was going on
along the great rivers between the yatza
and the Yellow River
they stayed down in the south these
people and did their own thing their
culture wasn't the least bit washy at
all these were the people collectively
known as the by.ya the hundred-year the
ones in the south were referred to as
the 9-year the southern yet after the
Qin had taken such wan the nine-year had
gone and helped themselves to parts of
Sichuan that was adjacent to their lands
Ching sure gua needed to bring this part
of China into the empire he went to
another of his generals who always
delivered this was to sway to sway was
given half a million man and pointed in
a southerly direction the mission was
clear conquer and bring them into Qin
and then like everywhere else take all
the laws of the land and implement them
in the south yeah easier said than done
anyone familiar with China can tell you
the climate and topography of the way
and Yellow River Valley is hardly the
same as the two guang's
Guangdong and Guangxi by the time they
got as far south as Hunan they were
already starting to realize this was a
mistake and they haven't adequately
prepared for such a campaign the 9uf had
the home-field advantage and fought a
guerrilla war with the Qin Army this was
all a new way of fighting and the Chien
weren't prepared
they took heavy losses and got bogged
down in the mountains and rugged terrain
and in the enemy of many an army
logistics and transport once again
brought ruin to sway and about a hundred
thousand Qin soldiers for ki a during
this campaign these yet people are not
easy pushovers and in fact will not be
totally subdued until the time of
hangeul d and 111 BCE Qin Shihuang aside
from the setbacks fighting the 9-year
was feeling the pressure coming from the
north as well for anything related to
the show no Qing Chuang mostly relied
and one guy general Muntean when you
think of the Great Wall you think I'm on
T n in preparation against what was
probably going to be a hard-fought
campaign among 10 and 215 BCE along with
three hundred thousand soldiers began
preparing all these individual walls
that had been put up by the northern
warring States these sections of walls
were joined together by mountains army
of workers in addition to this he also
called for the construction of lookout
towers this is where the Great Wall
becomes the Great Wall after he built it
he manned it and planned his campaign
against these beifong's how yeren people
this northern nomadic Menace who are
going to take seemingly forever to get
rid of but general Meng Tian was
successful in pushing them
and stopping the constant raids into
Chinese territory the Great Wall back
then actually played a role in the
Chinese victory over the show no to get
troops to wear the head be quickly just
in case of any show new incursions the
so called Xin highway was built that not
only allowed easy transport of grain
from Shandong to the capital it also
allowed for troops to be sent up north
within three days they could be in place
to put out any show new fires one of the
most remarkable and extraordinary feats
of the chain with a number of roads they
built nothing like a road to get from
one place to another right four thousand
two hundred and fifty miles of roads
were built during the Qin Emperor's
reign including some of those patented
Chinese roads that would curve around
mountain sides and were held up from
underneath by wooden support beams so it
was really after he saw how useful the
Great Wall was that Xin sure Wong
demanded a million chinses and served
their time building and expanding the
Great Wall 5,000 kilometers long snaking
through North China but all those
amazing twists and turns and up and down
steep mountains from Gansu than the
awning there are actually some ruins
that could be found in China of parts of
the great wall built during this time
it's not much left of the wall that
remains from the scene or the haunting
period what you see in the China travel
brochures parts of the wall constructed
during the Ming Dynasty in 214 Qin Shi
Huang decided to take a second shot at
defeating the not-yet
and bringing the south into the new Qing
fold this time he had smart last time
when they invaded the leaned on region
their failure was due to logistical
problems and not being able to cut over
to any rivers where they could send
troops and supplies the river of choice
to go from the central part of China
down to the south is this Yong Chun this
is the great river of Hunan Province
that empties into daunting Lake the
dividing marker between kebaya Hunan
the only problem with this river as far
as Qin Shi Huang was concerned was that
only God
as far as about kweilyn and guangxi
province and then that was it he was too
far west of where he needed to be if he
could only find some way to connect to
the the Lee Jeong the Lee River then he
could sail right into the heart of
Guangdong province and take it the lead
young flows into the Pearl River the
challenge was how to get from this young
to the lead that was between 30 to 40
miles Li Bing did it before in the mean
River Valley at do Jang yen and jung-hwa
did it when he connected the Jing and
log rivers the lean Qin canal that Xin
engineers and workers built and record
time was the third of the great
irrigation projects of the Qin the chin
choice and ashwini Jong Jong it wasn't
the straightest route and it took a lot
of twists and turns but once sure lu
built the link chicken al it connected
the young and the Pearl River via this
young and Lee rivers the next time Qin
Shihuang sent his forces down it played
out a little differently this time they
knew what to expect and now they had the
link chin canal which made all the
difference that canal is still around
today and in use running parallel to the
Sun are are caught off the 322 National
Highway once the South was safely joined
together with the rest of the Qin
Emperor's expanding unified land China
stretched from pretty much the Great
Wall
all the way down south to practically
were stanley market and hong kong is
today
his chief Suhr Wong was spreading
himself out to all over the new United
Chinese nation all kinds of incentives
were offered to pioneers who were
willing to go out and populate these
newly conquered lands the features
stimulus was a 12 year exemption from
the dreaded forced labor service I mean
12 years considering the average 3rd
century BCE life expectancy was
considerable that wasn't like a two-year
stint in the Army right after the South
was tamed and brought into the Qin
Empire the burning of the books episode
went down this was in 213
Jeane sure Wong's right-hand man Lisa is
going to teach these Confucian as a
lesson as one of the legends went one
too many of these scholars from the
other states at court kept bitching and
moaning about you know the present times
and couldn't harken back enough to the
good old days under the Jo the Qin
Shihuang it had enough here and all that
and allowed Lisa to suppress all written
works that weren't approved let me quote
from the venerable Francis woods neat
little book the first emperor of China
where she quotes Lisa quote if anyone
who is not a court scholar dares to keep
the ancient songs historical records or
writings from the hundred schools these
should be confiscated and burned by the
provincial governor and army commander
those who in conversation dear to quote
the old songs and records should be
publicly executed those who use old
precedents to oppose the new order
should have their families wiped out and
officers who know of such cases but fail
to report them should be punished in the
same way if 30 days after the issuing of
this order the owners of these books
still have not had them destroyed they
should have their faces tattooed and be
condemned to hard labor at the great
wall the only books which need not be
destroyed are those dealing in medicine
divination and agriculture end quote
a lot is made of this burning the books
thing Ching sure Wong is credited with
his act but it was all Lisa's idea did
it really happened was there a big
bonfire hard to tell except this wasn't
the last time an emperor came down hard
on the drew sure fun so are the
intellectuals wait song did it in the
song Kublai Khan did it and let's not
forget the Qianlong emperor he gave us
the suchan truth but he probably burned
just as many books as there were in this
massive work so when we talk about
burning books
shoot we give cheese sure Huang all the
glory let me quote Francis wood again
quote the Qianlong Emperor's ruthless
collection of books flagrant disregard
for the rights of private ownership and
brutal
punishment of scholars and bibliophiles
resulted in the destruction or
substantial alteration of 2665 works and
the death and dismemberment of over a
hundred scholars a far more systematic
expunging of records than the first
emperor's alleged burning of books and
burial of scholars end quote following
year 212 BCE saw the burying of the
scholars all those intellectuals who
didn't sign up for this book burning
campaign were buried alive this is
another one of those who knows kind of
things
Francis woods said quote whilst it seems
clear that the first emperor and his
counselor sought to eliminate opposition
particularly scholarly opposition spread
by rumor it seems likely that the
burning of the books and the burying of
the scholar is attributed to the first
emperor and contributing hugely to his
posthumous reputation for cruelty and
megalomania were greatly exaggerated I
told you the Qin Emperor used to make
these Imperial tours of the land it was
on one of these tours that he died
suddenly 210 BCE had set out to a place
called the island of the Immortals
someone in his coterie of alchemists and
filled the Emperor's head with ideas
about these mythical places he had done
this before and 219 and again in 215 BCE
searching for these elixirs that would
allow him to live forever he apparently
believed strongly in this and became
consumed with this notion of potential
immortality once the whole country
unified under his control the alchemists
close to the Qin Court must have been
having a field day with the first
emperor and said that he died from
consuming too much cinnabar cinnabar is
also known as mercury sulphide it's most
common or where you could find mercury
it's a bright red color and has been
used as a pigment since Neolithic times
it was also used heavily by alchemists
and as I said was a component in all
these concoctions being fed to Qin Shi
Huang Qi Chuang made it to this
so-called island of the Immortals or at
least he thought he did the secret
elixir he sought
was guarded by a huge fish the emperor
was told his so my chin tells it the
emperor shot and killed rather large
fish with a crossbow it was a fish but
it wasn't the fish and he never got to
tell anyone his fish tale nor was the
first Qin Emperor ever able to get his
hands on that elixir of immortality he
died and then began one of the strangest
series of events in ancient Chinese
history the first Emperor's on tirage
included his right-hand man Lisa and one
of the palace eunuchs named Joe Gow
these like law i ii also present was the
emperor's eighteenth and youngest son
not the crown prince this son was named
huhai and he became the second Qin
Emperor Xin Asher but as I said he
wasn't supposed to be the Emperor the
guy who was supposed to be the next
Emperor was named foo Hsu and he was up
north
assisting general monk yin near the
great wall monk yen and child cow were
not good friends and foe su was very
close to mung ten and the odds that
general mung would become the next
Emperor's right hand man were pretty
good bet this certainly had to run
through Lisa's head when all this was
going on so with a she never dead that
drastically changed the dynamic and Joe
Gow knew he didn't have a bright future
the new monkey on had his number but
Chaka was quite close to who hi and he
knew he'd fare much better under this
royal Sun Chien sure Wong as he lay
dying and opting tie village 100
kilometers northeast of honden and Hebei
province since a letter to phu su to
tell him he was dying and to get back to
Shinyoung ASAP and prepare for the
funeral
remember Qin Shihuang have been building
that megalopolis of a mausoleum
practically since the day he became
Emperor so he could imagine as far as
the funeral was concerned in his OCD
about eternal life they have some big
plans to go out in style that letter of
course was never delivered and as the
famous story goes as told by suma Chen
himself Joe Gow conspired with Lise to
take the Emperor's seal forge a letter
to both Monty
sooo commanding them to commit suicide
which surprisingly they did and then
this left things open for huhai to be
named as the next Emperor as the royal
entourage made its way back to Shenyang
in order to cover up the stench of the
Emperor's rotting corpse this was
September ELISA had a carriage of dried
fish placed before and after the
Emperor's carriage meant two months
later when they got back to Shenyang the
ruse was continued and no one was the
wiser it was a perfectly executed coup
d'etat at the most favourable moment for
the conspirators the Emperor's death was
announced once the first emperor was
gone everything fell apart quickly he
died in September - 10 BCE September
10th same day Rin Tin Tin died from
September to 10 to December 207 when the
chins last emperor threw in the towel
three years and three months passed
they spent centuries building this place
and in 39 months it all fell apart but
before everything that xin emperor and
his predecessors had built was destroyed
the second xin emperor Shinar sure is
gonna have a field day trying out all
these powers on everyone he may have
been the Qin Emperor's son but he was no
change her long with this inexperienced
malleable 21 year old spoiled boy on the
throne jaha was able to assume control
and manipulate the levers of power
Shinar sure was happy just to hang in
the palace and sample off his deceased
father's perks and let gel calm the
Empire and if there was one thing she
nah sure didn't like to hear was bad
news many officials and messengers were
put to death if they had anything less
than good or encouraging news to report
these times under the first Xin Emperor
were terribly harsh and unpleasant but
it seemed as long as this tyrant with
all his accomplishments powers and ways
to get you sat in his palace no one
dared to do anything that might be
perceived as disloyal so draconian and
strict with the law
in chin society there was little of
anything anyone could do except keep
their grumbling to themselves and stick
with the program you had to do you're 12
years a hard labor and submit to all
this state interference in their life
and that's all there was to it but that
guy was now gone and it was as if the
people of Sheen and the people of all
the conquered seven states plus Citroen
and all the leaned on region had this
itch to rise up regurgitate and spit out
this bitter pill the imperial court in
Shenyang was completely dysfunctional
with all these little men trying to walk
around in these massive shoes yeah the
Qin Dynasty started to die fast the
first nail in the coffin was the
Dodson's young uprising July to December
in the year 209 BCE the stars of this
great bit of history theater were Chung
Chung also known as Cheung sha and Wu
Quan you all know the story they were
soldiers sent to defend a certain town
and due to bad weather got bogged down
and missed their recon day penalty for
this particular type of insubordination
was death so they put their heads
together and decided that may as well
just blow this whole thing off
then taking stock of their situation and
the situation in Shenyang they went made
a big deal about what everyone's sort of
already knew that huhai had usurped the
throne from phu su and was behind the
treachery of phu su and mung tins for
suicide Changsha and Wu Quan easily
rallied forces to their side and they
went around stirring things up they
carry the banner of the revived Chu
state and before you know it Cheung sha
was elected king of Chu despite all
their grandiose plans the whole uprising
was a flash in the pan flash in the pan
though it was news of the uprising
spread fast and similar uprising started
taking place everywhere and from all
this confusion disunity and fighting
arose lil bang and Xiang Yu but before
those two great heroes of China history
arrived on the scene the Qin still had
two more years of slowed
to go right after the Dodson's young
uprising tchau tchau turned on his
co-conspirator and former councillor to
Qing Chuang lease he at least soothe
tortured tried and convicted on some
trumped-up charges and the man behind
the man who created and built all these
lasting legacies of the Qin was
sentenced to the whooshing the five
pains tattooing the face nose cut off
foot cut off private parts cut off and
the fifth pain for Lee su it was the old
gouge on cut in half at the waist
nothing more they could do after that by
207 BCE the Empire was officially up for
grabs Chien archers general orders were
if you don't have any good news to tell
me don't make an appointment so he sat
out the rebellions and uprisings finally
when he wakes up and realizes he's about
to lose everything
Xin Archer saw he had allowed Joe Gow to
usurp his powers and used them to launch
a reign of terror against any suspected
enemies what else could choke I'll do at
a time like this except half the Emperor
murdered next in line to the Qin throne
he lasted 46 days before he gave it all
up and reduced his title to king of Qin
but five days into his reign this third
Emperor ding did the right thing and had
child cow executed yeah it was gonna be
all over by the end of 207 after the
Battle of julu that was we're showing
you defeated a massive Qing army of
300,000 which resulted in 200,000 killed
in battle and 200,000 Qin soldiers
buried alive somewhere halfway between
law young and Simon Xie as I said the
spirits of the people of Chu was never
broken so when things began to fall
apart for the Qin was only natural that
the true kingdom would rise again and it
was young you who became their leader
his story was told of CHP episode 91
that was it the yang family of the
mighty Qin state and the later Qing
Dynasty we're never gonna bounce back
Battle of julu 46 days into this third
Xin Emperor's reign he surrendered to
the forces led by the great lil bung the
man who would ultimately face down Xiang
Yu to become the founder of the Han
Dynasty once the yin surrendered to Liu
bang the Qin Dynasty officially ends
there then the following year in 206
Xiang Yu sacked and captured the Qin
capital of Shenyang when she had young
was under attack and the call for help
was sent to Qing armies in the south
they didn't even bother to answer and
more books got burned when Xiang Yu
torched the Imperial library than
anything Lee's Suncheon sure Wan burned
during their campaign from seven years
before prisoners who were promised
freedom and return for their help had to
be rounded up frantically to rush the
completion of the Emperor's tomb wasn't
even ready when he died so 206 BCE the
Qin Dynasty officially ends but it was
pretty much all over for them once the
founder died China got split apart again
but only for seven years down in the
south and this is gonna be a standalone
episode one day the Qin military
commander down there operating out the
non high commander he decided with the
demise of the Qin the timing was gonna
be right to declare the founding of the
nine year Kingdom so in 204 BCE this
great hero from Ling nan history
child hua took control and let the
people of this area guanxi Guangdong a
bit of Fujian in northern Vietnam in
this nine-year kingdom prospered for a
while
child hua and the nine yet that's a
great story for another day
what are we to make of this first
emperor of China from his name we
supposedly get the word China he's not
here to defend himself and there are no
surviving records that give a clear and
definitive background about who he was
we have so much in which is a start
there's the new shirt would show the
spring and autumn annals of Master Liu
this highly regarded ancient book
written by Lupul way provides a lot of
insight into Chin's society and the
rules that everyone had to live by
there's also everything that
and historians have dug up and analyzed
including the mausoleum complex still
under excavation to this very day tombs
of Qin Nobles are discovered from time
to time some quite revealing as far as a
window into the times they provide the
legacy the Chien left behind for the
Chinese people served them well for a
couple thousand years with each
successive dynasty greater achievements
were built on previous ones but you had
to start somewhere before the house gets
built you need to dig a foundation and
that's what the Qin did basic things we
in our day take for granted a national
infrastructure laws civil bureaucracy
were built first by the Qin they
provided a model for national and civil
administration and for collecting taxes
no one needed the nobles to do this for
them anymore with regard to water
management and agricultural control they
did many great things we looked at a few
of them they taught everyone who
followed them how to standardize and
mass-produce weapons and the chiyan
state could very well be credited with
creating the world's first permanent
arms industry they introduced military
fighting techniques utilizing mass
infantry and cavalry and in a day with
no walkie-talkies they introduced a
whole system of communication and how to
control troops on the battlefield using
horns and drums it was primitive but it
worked their ambitious civil engineering
and building projects were models for
dynasties to come some provided great
benefits to the country and the people
and some like the first Emperor's
mausoleum and his pleasure parks and
palaces were historic wastes of public
funds
you know the whole organizing principle
of the qin state was for war the direct
administration of all the peasants right
down to the household was based on
mobilizing everyone for battle for
almost the entirety of the eastern joke
period there was no dearth of
opportunities for military conquest but
now after 221 BCE and especially after
the north and south were pacified with
no Wars to fight you still have to keep
the peasants busy and absorb
all this mandatory labor and military
service that everyone had to give let me
quote Stanford professor mark Edward
Lewis from his book the early Chinese
empires Qin and Han quote to occupy
these conscripts the Qin state engaged
in an orgy of expansion and building
that had little logic except employing
warring States institutions that had
been rendered obsolete by their own
success armies were launched on massive
pointless expeditions to the south north
and northeast colossal projects to
construct roads a new capital and the
first emperor's tomb were initiated
laborers were dispatched to the northern
frontier to link old defenses into the
first great wall a state created for
warfare and expansion Qin wasted its
strength and alienated its newly
conquered people by fighting and
expanding when there were no useful
worlds left to conquer mutinies by labor
gangs led to a general rebellion of Qin
officers and people against their rulers
and the first Chinese Empire went down
in flames only 15 years after it was
created end quote
they standardized weights and measures
and introduced the iconic ban Liang Chen
the round copper coin with the square
hole was that staying power lasting well
into the Ching dynasty as the name
suggests that it was worth ban Liang
half a Liang 16 Liang equaled a Jin and
from this we get the old Chinese saying
bun jean-paul yang our English version
of six of one and a half dozen or the
other and last but not least and we have
Lee su to thank for this more than
anyone else the Qin Dynasty left behind
the small seal script form of writing as
I mentioned last episode during the
eastern show the writing styles from
state to state varied somewhat and there
was no one single Chinese script that
worked wherever you went the small seal
script style of writing though it
appears a little ancient didn't change
that much in about 2,000 years and
and I could read many of the characters
and the ones I can't read are at least
somewhat recognizable and this one
single script that was implemented
throughout the land truly worked wonders
and unifying the nation already it was a
nation comprised of hundreds of dialects
so they have one single writing system
that worked in the north south east and
west was truly a great and long lasting
achievement so I guess that's the grand
irony of the Qin Dynasty they themselves
weren't long-lasting but the innovations
that happen during their watch were
indeed quite long-lasting you all recall
from CHP episode 18 on the Western Han
when they took over they pretty much
kept the Qin system as the foundation
that they built their magnificent
bureaucracy on that's gonna be about it
well over an hour no need to get into
the mausoleum go visit it for yourselves
and the tourist paradise of Xian that's
what most people remember the first
emperor Qin sure won for he is the one
who United China into one nation and set
the tone for how dynasties were managed
for the rest of Chinese history don't
forget to show me and the CHP a little
bit of love and go to tea sense calm and
by my historic tees of China not Hong
Pao tea I Quan Yin Huang Shan
malfunction Long Jing and two kinds of
raw who are come on baby even if you're
too good to stoop to try out these teas
they make fantastic gifts for anyone
who's just getting started or taking
that first step into the world of tea
this is the complete package te a SE and
z.com
the historic teas of China I'll have a
link on the CHP website or just email me
and I will personally send you the link
hey man I bought one it was easy the
historic teas of China try it you'll
like it
I obviously miscalculated about where to
cut this teacher Huang cake in half this
part two episode runs 20 something
minutes longer than part one well that
more than makes up for that overly
simplified CHP to APIs
so this is Lazlo Montgomery on behalf of
the whole team of researchers here
writers interns editors and well
everyone even the old lady who brings
the milk tea at 3:00 p.m. thank you for
listening and I truly hope you'll
consider joining us again at another
uncertain time in the future for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast